Final Project Report
Isaac Cade and Maggie Peklo
Computer Science I, Section 155 N
May 3rd, 2021
 
	The project we chose to complete for our final project in CSCE 155N was
the example project in which we had to make a graphical user interface 
(GUI) plotting x and y coordinates. Our coding process for this project was
 tedious, and we, quite literally, took the code one line at a time. 
Throughout the course of working on it, we frequently sought out MATLAB’s 
resource website to figure out how certain buttons work and how to place 
certain labels nicely on our GUI. Along with MATLAB’s resources, we found 
ourselves going back to previous labs and homework assignments to remember 
how to plot in MATLAB, how to push code through git onto our repository, 
and how to make GUI buttons. 
However, most of the code in our project was completed using trial and 
error. We spent a lot of time debugging our code to figure out what worked 
and what did not work. Though we had a lot of code, and debugging was time 
consuming, it was helpful that we had our design process neatly laid out 
beforehand. We made sure we had our elements matched up and our spacing 
made for easy readability, so when it was time for us to read through and 
debug our code, it did not take as long as anticipated. Another challenge 
we faced in this project was that one of us has a Mac laptop, which made 
for difficulties using git and pushing code onto the repository. To 
overcome this challenge, we had met up and worked on the code together and 
compiled it onto one laptop to pushed it through onto Isaac’s repository. 
Though this was a complicated way of going about our challenge, it made for 
a good learning experience since we had to talk through the issues we faced 
and were able to bounce ideas off each other easily. 
We chose to complete this project due to time constraints on both of our 
schedules and for simplicity’s sake. Because we chose to do the given 
example project, we did not seek project approval from a Learning 
Assistant. In retrospect, if we had the opportunity to complete this 
project again, we would have chosen something more applicable to our major, 
mechanical engineering. One prompt that we would have liked to complete, if 
time permitted, would be using GUIs to plot thrust curves, as we are both 
100k, an aerospace club, and are currently using a thrust curve to best 
determine potential airframes for our rocket engine. Using MATLAB to 
calculate and plot the necessary data needed to put together a proper curve 
to run in our flight simulations would have tied together what we are 
learning in school into a real-world setting. It would have been 
interesting to see how our project and thrust curve calculated and plotted 
by our graduate team in 100k would match up, and if we could successfully 
code a GUI to correctly plot the curve we are using. 
	Though implementing graphical user interfaces into our code became the 
entire scope of our project, GUIs prove themselves extremely useful, given 
that most engineers, and people in general, encounter and use GUIs almost 
every day. GUIs allow everyday occupations to interact with electronics 
using graphics, images, and so forth without having to learn how to code 
everything themselves. Looking specifically at engineering, one way that we 
will be able to use GUIs to our benefit is like our final project. Using a 
window, such that we created, to plot data for us or calculate properties 
of materials will prove itself useful and time efficient in our future 
careers. With an understanding of GUIs and how they work will allow us to 
better understand how to be more efficient and successful in our careers 
because it will allow us to solve problems in more intuitive ways.
Overall, the example project presented challenges that had to be worked 
through using MATLAB’s resources, previous knowledge, and our own 
problem-solving techniques. Given the opportunity to complete this project 
again, we would have liked to make it more applicable to our major, 
specifically what we are currently working on in 100k. Using this 
application to our major makes it easy to see the benefits of GUIs and how 
they work in everyday life. GUIs ultimately save time and having better 
knowledge of them and how they work make it possible to overcome technical 
challenges in our future careers with a sense of creativity.
